# HaydenGentry.github.io

#### Name: Hayden Gentry
#### Located: Louisville, Kentucky
#### Currently: Telecom Designer - Spectrum
#### Education: Bachelor's of Science in Computer Science

#
### Professional Self-Assessment:

Throughout the Computer Science program here at SNHU and at UofL I have learned many new skills and technologies that have helped me grow to become a more capable developer and engineer. The main reason I chose to study Computer Science is because I find that understanding how to utilize software to solve problems unlocks a wealth of potential at finding valuable solutions. One of my earliests interests in Computer Science came from the stock market, where there is a huge influx of rapidly changing data from companies all around the world, and understanding how to make educated decisions through all of the market noise could make you a person or organization incredibly wealthy. This led to me to choose Data Analysis as my concentration, where I have learned many techniques on how to create effective models to make data-driven decisions. 

During my time at UofL, I had many instances of collaborating in a team environment. In my first Engineering Principles course I was in a team with three other classmates where we were tasked with creating a proposal for a new walkpath on campus. We had to find a place on campus in need of an official walkpath, survey the location for the walkpath, create estimates for the time and cost of the installation, and draft a presenatation of our findings that would be presented to the stakeholders of campus development and other faculty members. This experience taught me a lot about how to delgate tasks as a project leader, overcome issues that arise in a project lifecycle, meet strict deadlines, and how to create a professional proposal that would be the catalyst for real-world improvement projects. 

One of my the courses I found most exciting during my time in the Computer Science program at SNHU would be Data Structures and Algorithms. In this course, I learned not only about the various data structures that are used and their specific quirks that set them apart from others, but also which data structures are the most appropriate to use in certain circumstances. This skill allowed me to build more effcient algorithms but utilizing the best data structure for the problem at hand. For example, I used a hash table in a project in this course for creating a new course planning systems for advisors. I chose to use a hash table because it had the largest upsides and fewest downsides when of issues such as time and memory complexity compared to other data structures such a trees, vectors, or sets; given the tasks of reading files, creating and storing objects, and searching for objects.

Through my time in university, I have become more capable and comfortable dealing with larger applications and databases while keeping all the components secure. In my Software Testing course I learned about how to unit test each component of software to ensure the program behaves correctly even when given unexpected inputs or interactions. To ensure that programs will throw errors if a user is not interacting with program as intended. This gave me a strong foundation for my Software Security course, where I understood the greater importance of these errors and how to protect applications against malicious attacks such as SQL injection and Denial-of-Service (DoS). Software testing and software security became vital skills for when I began to develop larger applications, like the interactive website I created during my Full-Stack Applications course. These skills that I utilized ensured that each unit and component of software would work as intended and was not subject to vulnerabilities from malicious attacks or edge-cases. 

#
### Capstone Project Introduction

The artifact that I chose to make enhancements on for my Capstone Project is a text-based game I created during my Introduction to Python course at UofL. This game is a simple role-based game (RPG) where the user must navigate through the game and collect items using text based commands within a terminal window session. For my capstone project I chose to create a new game because I have not had many opportunities in previous courses to demonstrate my more advanced knowledge in algorithms and UI/UX. I chose to create a full-stack application of the Sudoku game that runs on the browser. 

The technologies that I chose to use for my full-stack application include Flask and HTML to build out the frontend designs, Python to handle the backend game logic, and SQLite for the database storage and retrievals. I decided to center these technologies around the utilization of Python being the backend for game logic, because it was the coding language I had the most experience and I would have greater success building out the advanced algorithms needed for puzzle generation. I chose Flask for the frontend framework because it is light, minimalistic, and simple; allowing me as a developer to integrate only neccesary components as I continue to build out the application. Finally, I chose SQLite because it is serverless embedded database that is resource effcient and integrates well with the Python centered application. 
